welcome to module 2 lesson four monthly
optimizations in this lesson we're going
to cover the monthly optimizations you
should be implementing in your Google ad
account to turn clicks into profits
let's open up our optimization workflow
template and jump into it all right so
we're here in the optimization workflow
template and we have our monthly items
listed out so let's goe and talk through
each one so you have some context first
is to audit your campaign settings this
shouldn't be new to you uh essentially
we just want to double check our
campaign settings make sure that we're
targeting the right Network so we don't
have display and search combined
together they're separated search
Partners you can totally have as an
option in your campaigns and then you
can do a breakdown by Network to see if
the search Partners is working for you
or not bidding you want to make sure
that your bidding is correct and that it
hasn't been updated by accident or for
God forbid you have the um the auto
recommendations still turned on and they
automatically updated your bid without
your consent that could have happened so
you want to make sure you have that
turned off and your location options you
want to make sure it's set to presence
and people who are actually in your
Target location or regularly in and not
people who are uh you know potentially
in other areas and they're interested in
that location we're going to want to
review the month-over-month pipeline
impact from Google ads at the end of the
day we're running ads so we can generate
revenue and revenue comes from initially
having pipeline so we want to make sure
that we're reviewing that impact so if
you don't have a dashboard like this
where you can see month over month so I
can see okay in January we drove x
amount of pipeline uh then I can come to
the next month and I can change my date
range and then I can compare and I can
see okay in February we drove this month
or Etc whatever that time frame is you
need that because you have to connect
your activity to revenue um this is the
example template that we've talked about
uh extensively already throughout our
series and uh you can get an you can get
this or you can make something else in
something like looker or Tableau doesn't
really matter but you just you need
something like this so you can do this
uh in addition to that outside of
reviewing your month over month pipeline
impact you want to review your
performance by campaign them so like I
mentioned especially you have a big
Google ad account with hundreds of
campaigns you want to group all of the
similar campaigns together by theme and
then report on the theme performance so
hey here's how non Brand's doing here's
how brand is doing competitive rlsa and
then you can report on performance by
theme uh when it comes to the visibility
so their impression share metrics how
visible are you your in Brush and share
your loss to rate your loss to budget
search stop and brush and share your
cost how much are you spending per theme
what is your uh cost per conversion what
is your conversion rates and then what
are your volumes right so like are you
driving more volume in a certain theme
versus other uh should we move budget
around so you really want to do the
performance at the campaign theme level
you want to review your quality score so
like we talked about how to export that
quality score and then put it into a
pivot table and then see okay month ever
month is our quality score actually
improving uh you know in the case of
when we did the audit with this uh this
example client all of their keywords
were below seven it was really low and
landing page experience had 94% below
average so we make changes we check back
in a month we run these numbers and we
check and we see okay did our landing
page experience improve did it go from
94% to like 70% below average as an
example and our overall quality score
improved right are we moving in the
right direction
next is your Geographic performance and
budget allocation so you want to go
ahead and see of all your campaigns and
the different regions you're targeting
which regions are performing better than
others is North America performing
better than Mia or APAC or so on and so
forth you want to break that out and
then understand where your budget is
going by region and then making the
necessary changes device performance and
budget allocation same thing which
devices are performing best for you is
there an opportunity for you like for
example in B2B desktop usually performs
the best compared to mobile and tablet
is there an opportunity to potentially
just Target desktop devices so you can
export that report uh in the device
section and then do that analysis
keyword and match type performance are
there certain keywords that are doing
better for you than others certain match
types all of these are insights for you
to be able to pull on levers for
optimization reviewing your lighting
page performance and uh any experiments
that you're running how are your
lighting Pages performing are are you
running experiments if you're not that's
definitely an opportunity we're going to
talk about that later but you want to
make sure you're giving your landing
pages actual effort and detention and
then last but not least is are you
implementing net new campaign
experiments are you actually testing new
experiments if you're not then that is a
a massive opportunity for you to improve
performance and Google ads makes this
really easy uh with their I can show you
here with their campaign experiments
tool you can run different campaign
experiments really simply uh so highly
recommend that you check this tool out
you can create different experiments and
it just makes life so much easier we're
going to talk about this more in a
future lesson your action item for this
lesson is to implement the monthly
workflow optimizations as shown I hope
you received a ton of value so far
please share ad conversion with your
friends or colleagues leave us a
testimonial we appreciate your help I'll
see you in the next one
[Music]